Newlife Submissions Guide
=========================

This is the instructions on how to submit scenes for inclusion in the
game.

You should read the permissions statement before you start writing for
Newlife and check that it's something you can agree with.

When you're ready to submit your content, see the How To Submit section.

Permissions Statement
---------------------

To submit content to Newlife you *must* agree with the below statement.
Your message or post containing the files should clearly contain stating
that you do so.

By submitting content to Newlife you are agreeing to the following:

-   You are giving the game's developer ("Splendid Ostrich") permanent
    and irrevocable rights to do whatever they wish with all submitted
    content with no limitations. This includes but is not limited to the
    right to make modifications, removals and additions to it and to
    include it in the game.

<!-- -->

-   You confirm that you're at least 18 years of age and that there are
    no legal reasons why you shouldn't be submitting adult content.
-   You confirm that you hold the copyright to submitted content and
    that there are no legal reasons why it could not be used in Newlife.
-   You understand that you will not be reimbursed financially for
    submitting content to Newlife, unless this was agreed in writing
    with the developer before work started.
-   You understand that the developer is under no obligation to use your
    submitted content, and that it might be rejected or
    dramatically modified.

A colloquial explanation of what this means:

**First**, you''re giving me the right to do whatever I want with your
submitted content. This principally will mean making modifications and
including it in the game. It might also mean things like putting
screenshots on my blog or whatever. Basically, I can do anything I like
with it.

This is **irrevocable*****. ***This means you can't change your mind
once you've submitted it. This is important because it takes time and
work to include content in Newlife. I don't want people to be able to
demand that scenes be removed from the game once I've taken the time to
add them.

**Second,** you must be legally allowed to work on adult content: so,
you should be 18 or over.

**Third, **you must hold the copyright. If you wrote the content
yourself and didn't copy someone else's work then this is automatically
the case â€“ you don't need to submit any paperwork or anything to hold
copyright over your work. You also can't have made any legally-binding
contracts preventing you from sharing the work with someone else.

Note that you are not giving me the copyright. The first part of the
agreement means I can do whatever I want with your content, but you
still have the copyright so you can also use it yourself. For instance,
you could modify it to put in a game or short-story of your own.

Fourth, you won't get paid for submitting content. While paid
commissions are something I'll be considering in the longer term I'll
never be taking random submissions for them: I'd contact people with a
good record of writing adult content and discuss it with them ahead of
time. Do not write submissions to Newlife with the aim of making money.

If you choose, I will generally recognise you in the changelog and about
section if your work is included in the game, but this is not a legally
binding promise. I'm unlikely to refuse to do so unless your chosen
username is gratuitously offensive.

**Fifth**, I understand that a scene is a lot of work, but I also can't
promise to include it in the game. If you feel that a rejection would
make you very angry or unhappy then please don't submit anything to me.

How to submit a scene
---------------------

When your scene is ready, contact me on one of the below sites by either
PM or by posting in the forum. Your post/PM should confirm that you
agree with the permissions statement in this file. Attach the yml and
text files for your scene, either as attachments if allowed by the site
or by uploading them to a free host like Mega or Mediafire. You could
also save them in a publicly-accessible google document if you prefer.

It's generally better to submit your content in a public way like a
forum post rather than by PM as that lets other players see it and
provide feedback. However, PM is also fine, especially if you don't want
to be identified publicly as the writer.

You can also use these sites to ask questions about development. Again,
it's much better to ask them publicly.

Please don't use blog comments to submit a scene. You should do so in a
way that lets me contact you personally via PM if necessary.

Discord:

The Newlife discord (run by FutureSight) has the most active
scene-creation community and is probably the best place to post finished
scenes or ask for advice from other writers or player-feedback on works
in progress.

It can be accessed from this link:
[**https://discord.gg/66Q7UDy**](https://discord.gg/66Q7UDy)

Finished scenes should be submitted in the finished-custom-scenes
channel. WIPs should go in alpha-custom-scenes.

Patreon:

You can contact me via PM, by making a new post, or by commenting on an
appropriate post. Only patrons are able to contact a creator on Patreon
so non-patrons should choose a different site.

tfgamessite.com

Discussion thread:

<https://www.tfgamessite.com/phpbb3/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=6043>

My profile:

<https://www.tfgamessite.com/phpbb3/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=48588>

Fenoxo's forum

Thread:

<https://forum.fenoxo.com/threads/newlife.93/>

Profile:

<https://forum.fenoxo.com/members/splendidostrich.276/>

legendofkrystal.com

Thread:

<https://legendofkrystal.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=35&t=5269>

My profile:

<https://legendofkrystal.com/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=26501>

loverslab.com

Thread:

<http://www.loverslab.com/topic/40706-newlife-adult-game/>

My profile:

<http://www.loverslab.com/user/1596208-splendidostrich/>

hongfire.com

Thread:

[http://www.hongfire.com/forum/forum/hentai-lair/hentai-game-discussion/408751](http://www.hongfire.com/forum/forum/hentai-lair/hentai-game-discussion/408751-newlife-gender-bender-text-game-version-0-4-9-released-29-06-2017)

Profile:

<http://www.hongfire.com/forum/member/1323329-splendidostrich>
